self-ml(1) -- read self-ml files
=============================================

## SYNOPSIS

`ronn` [<format>...] <file>...<br>
`ronn` `-m`|`--man` <file>...<br>
`ronn` `-S`|`--server` <file>...<br>
`ronn` `--pipe` <file><br>
`ronn` &lt; <file>

`self-ml` filename

## DESCRIPTION

**Self-ML** parses files written in the self-ml format.

Something something

## FILES

The `self-ml` command expects input to be valid self-ml(7) text.  Source files
are typically named <name>.selfml (e.g., `example.1.ronn`).  The <name>
and <section> should match the name and section defined in the <file>'s heading.

When building roff or HTML output files, destination filenames are determined by
taking the basename of the input <file> and adding the appropriate file
extension (or removing the file extension in the case of roff output).  For
example, executing `ronn example.1.ronn` generates `example.1` with roff output
and `example.1.html` with HTML output.

## OPTIONS

These options control whether output is written to file(s), standard output, or
directly to a man pager.

  * `-o`=<output>:
    Generate file <output>.

  * `--pipe`:
    Don't generate files, write generated output to standard output. This is the
    default behavior when ronn source text is piped in on standard input and no
    <file> arguments are provided.

Format options control the files `ronn` generates, or the output format when the
`--pipe` argument is specified. When no format options are given, both `--roff`
and `--html` are assumed.

  * `-r`, `--roff`:
    Generate roff output. This is the default behavior when no <file>s are given
    and ronn source text is read from standard input.

  * `-5`, `--html`:
    Generate output in HTML format.

  * `-f`, `--fragment`:
    Generate output in HTML format but only the document fragment, not the
    header, title, or footer.

Document attributes displayed in the header and footer areas of generated
content are specified with these options. (These values may also be set via
the [ENVIRONMENT][].)

  * `--manual`=<manual>:
    The name of the manual this man page belongs to; <manual> is prominently
    displayed top-center in the header area.

  * `--organization`=<name>:
    The name of the group, organization, or individual responsible for
    publishing the document; <name> is displayed in the bottom-left footer area.

  * `--date`=<date>:
    The document's published date; <date> must be formatted `YYYY-MM-DD` and is
    displayed in the bottom-center footer area. The <file> mtime is used when no
    <date> is given, or the current time when no <file> is available.

Miscellaneous options:

  * `-v`, `--version`:
    Show ronn version and exit.

  * `-h`, `--help`:
    Show selfml help and exit.

## EXAMPLES


## ENVIRONMENT

  * `RONN_MANUAL`:
    A default manual name to be displayed in the top-center header area.
    The `--manual` option takes precedence over this value.

  * `RONN_ORGANIZATION`:
    The default manual publishing group, organization, or individual to be
    displayed in the bottom-left footer area. The `--organization` option takes
    precedence over this value.

  * `RONN_DATE`:
    The default manual date in `YYYY-MM-DD` format. Displayed in the
    bottom-center footer area. The `--date` option takes precedence over this
    value.

  * `RONN_STYLE`:
    A `PATH`-style list of directories to check for stylesheets given to the
    `--style` option. Directories are separated by a _:_; blank entries are
    ignored. Use _._ to include the current working directory.

  * `MANPAGER`:
    The paging program used for man pages. This is typically set to
    something like 'less -is'.


## BUGS


## COPYRIGHT

Self-ML is Copyright (C) 2012 Ricardo Mendes <http://ricardomend.es>

## SEE ALSO

selfml(7)